There is no grand conspiracy. No plan, no purpose. Just *people,* being the cruel, stupid villains they always have been.


*Because that is what we do!* How many have died on your orders? By now it must be thousands, at least. 

She fights. 

“Do you see this as your home?”
“I beg your pardon?”
“Istanbul. Do you feel like it’s really your home, or just where you ended up?” When Cassandra didn’t immediately respond, Eirene continued. “Besim and the other locals, they fight for Istanbul because it’s their city. But it’s not ours. Newcomers like us only fight because it’s the last place we have left.

You're not a hero. You can't save the world, defeat Kasimira, overthrow the Directorate. But, maybe, if you play your cards right, you can just do this one thing. And that will be enough.


Pendleton argues to Cassandra that the UNPD must be dismantled, by force if necessary. No nation powerful enough to unilaterally impose its will upon others can be allowed to exist. The Directorate has not yet passed
this threshold, but if it defeats the Tehran Pact with its new technology, there would be none left to oppose it. Thus, it must be struck down while such an act is still possible.

While Cassandra agrees that its methods of peace by subjugation are unsustainable, she condemns the indiscriminate violence Pendleton uses to accomplish his goals, pointing out that she herself has only used
violence in self defense. 

However, Pendleton retorts that his attacks have been limited to key targets, carefully chosen to stoke religious and ideological fervor in his
own citizens, specifically their opposition to "heretical" artificial intelligences. He himself does not oppose AIs, but they made a convenient scapegoat to inspire his people to go to war.

When Cassandra asks if he intends for Kasimira to replace the UNPD as the leaders of the new world, he states that he will not, as doing so would just lead them down the same path. He says
he'd sooner target his own capital with the superweapon than allow it to take the Directorate's place, although he notes that the Inquisition and the Peregrines have done a fine job of breaking Kasimira apart already. 

The Directorate was built from a world on the brink of annihilation. How can you be sure another won't rise up once you're no longer there to keep it down?

	Can't let perfect be the enemy of good (link to Cassandra's perfectionism in her personal life?)